# Cluster Analysis

This directory holds all implemented python packages and jupyter notebooks used for the practical implementation of this master thesis.

## Basic Structure

- `data` holds data files that are either generated by the jupyter notebooks or used by them to perform their tasks.
- `notebooks` contains all jupyter notebooks
  - `dataset` contains all notebooks that were used to create, clean and prepare the data in Akeneo-PIM
  - `clustering` holds the actual clusterings and evaluations from the thesis. All tables and graphics are created here as well.
- `reports` holds exported versions of all notebooks in the `notebooks` directory either as html or pdf files. They can be used to look into the notebooks if there is no other way to do so.
- `src` contains all python implementations
  - `akeneo` implementations to communicate with Akeneo-PIM and cache the data from it.
  - `clustering` implementation of the generic clustering library
  - `akeneo_clustering` concrete implementation of interfaces for the clustering of data from Akeneo. Other auxiliaries.
  - `config` general stuff like directory paths or loading config from the environment.
- `py.sh` very useful script, that can run several tasks like unit tests etc. Just run it without arguments to see its usage.

## Installation

All dependencies are provided through a virtual python environment by using the tool `pipenv`. To use it, you need to have python installed on your system. then run:

```sh
python3 -m pip install pipenv
```

This will install `pipenv`

Afterwards, by running the script `py.sh` you can install all other dependencies. Just type:

```sh
sh py.sh init
```

Now, everything is installed and ready to be run.

## Usage

Jupyter Notebooks can easily be viewed and run by using a Jupyter plugin for your code editor. Alternatively, you can start a jupyter server on your local machine, which lets you view and execute the notebooks as well. To do that type:

```sh
pipenv run python3 -m jupyter notebook
```

The notebook server can now be accessed at <http://localhost:8888>

## Further Development

The script `py.sh` automates many useful tasks. Just run it without arguments to see all available options:

```sh
sh py.sh
```
